---
layout: post
title: Generating melodies with PyTorch
---

There are not many tutorials about music generation via deep learning techniques, so here I'm sharing some of the main takeaways that I learnt by developing a simple recurrent network to generate melodies.

Check the full code here: https://github.com/BouncyButton/PyTorch-MelodyGeneration

# Introduction

I attended in the Department of Information Engineering (DEI) located in the University of Padua a [wonderful course](https://didattica.unipd.it/off/2019/LM/IN/IN2371/005PD/INP9086459/N0) about *Neural networks and deep learning*, taught by [Prof. Alberto Testolin](https://didattica.unipd.it/off/2019/LM/IN/IN2371/005PD/INP9086459/N0) and [Dr. Federico Chiarotti](https://www.dei.unipd.it/persona/EB99502C0B5BC54A2F2AFF873027AD4E).

This course consisted in experimenting with various topics that I will probably cover in other blog posts.

The project that I put mostly more effort considered the treatment of *sequences of data*: without getting too abstract, we were interested in models (i.e. black boxes) that can predict the next element in a sequence. We are in touch with similar technologies every day: for example, whenever we type some text in our smartphone keyboard, we receive suggestions about the next word that should be typed.

Similar mechanisms could be applied for the treatment of **music**: instead of predicting the next word in a piece of text, we're interested in predicting the next note in a piece of music.

This blog post will contain some technical notes that could be useful to someone trying to implement a similar model.



#  Dataset

First of all, we need to decide what we want to *model*; put in other words, we need to understand how we can teach our synthetic musician to *replicate* the behavior of a real musician.

To achieve this objective the most common way used is to consider a fixed **dataset**: a database of musical data...

## Encoding

We can be interested in representing music in many levels of detail:

* Sheet music
* MIDI
* Waveform
* ABC notation
* ...

# Results



# Previous works

...

# Implementation tips

